In this video we are going to talk about user flaws and site maps and I am also going to share with
you an online tool that can easily help you generate user flows and site maps visually and very easily.
You just need to drag and drop and that's it.
And it has a free version too.
So we are not worried about being anything.
So let's get started.
First we are going to see what are user flaws and why they are important.
Now flow off your Web site and your app is actually a part of information architecture how the user
is going to move from one page to another or from one screen to another.
Which part they are going to take and how actually user reaches a certain portion of for example a checkout
page how this person is going to reach that.
Similarly we have very common flaws like we have checkout floors we have log in sign up floors we have
onboarding user flow when the user is actually starting or installing our app or website for the first
time.
So this is actually onboarding so we are onboarding them that holiday.
What is this website or app is about and how they are going to get value from it.
So this is these are common user flows.
You can design user flows for your whole website for each process and it is very simple.
It is actually just deciding how the user will reach the information.
Similarly we have site maps that are mostly related to web sites and why actually we create a map of
Web site and all its pages because the users and search engines they can find the information or what
they are looking for easily.
So we actually map out create a map of all the pages and sub pages off your Web site and we put it in
a 1 1 page or sometimes a 1 diagram to show that this is how our whole website structure is going to
layout.
So this will be our page structure.
This is how we are actually have different structures or you can say like if we talk about architecture
we have a house and we have different rooms and then within those rooms we have different smaller loan
rooms like washrooms bathrooms or toilets and dressing rooms.
So in the kitchen we have dining room.
So this is similar to how actually you are going to map out a house or your home.
So we are actually have big rooms like Bill and pages then we have child pages that are sub rooms or
sub smaller rooms of smaller portions inside that same category.
And it is actually how our whole website is actually going to have a structure.
So search engines mostly Google they have crawlers that are basically softwares that actually go to
your Web site and they crawl different pages and get information from them.
So site map and planning out how you are going to structure a Web site has a great impact on your marketing
and your search engine optimization how your website is going to appear in search engines.
So this is very important part.
If you are designing or developing for our website so let's see a tool that I recommend you can use
for creating site maps and user flows.
So this is an app called Flow map.
And this is just for site maps and user flows and it has a free vision and free sign up.
So here I have created this site map and you can see this is a site map for fraud plan.
Let me go to this view.
It is very simple.
What you have to do is just you have to click go ahead and there will be different pages you can add
from that for example if I want to add more pages for example Lexi we have Rockland main page.
Let's zoom in a bit OK.
So we are now zoomed in.
Let's drag it up Falkland main page.
Then we have some pages deal.
It deals bid and browse products with categories.
So whatever category they are going to select all here it will be a category page with filters you can
see on the left.
We have small filters then we have contact us page log and sign up page.
I am just you know making sure that you understand what is this concept then from these two pages we
have product details product item.
And this is the same product page product details page from deals page or product with this or this
browse product page.
So users will go from here to this page.
This is a common page then we can add to cart.
And here we have our cart.
Then we have checkout process than we had and have to select payment options then we have order success
page.
So these are all the different pages we have listed a lot here as you can also list different category
pages over here.
For example in my case of Franklin I can add a few more pages by clicking this one or here.
And I have a few more categories like let me add a catalog over here at bridge and we have a new page.
Let's name it princess dresses.
OK.
So we have this one more page or ahead.
Let's move it.
It's let me see.
I'm not sure why it is you know structuring like this.
Anyhow it is choosing it automatically.
Then we can add one more category.
Page let's add one more category and we are going to add another one.
This will be casual dresses.
OK so you got the idea.
This is how you are going to create a site map and you can export it all.
Here you can see here we have export options.
We have SVP Angie I'm going to use BMG and generate preview.
Let's see how the preview looks like.
This is not actually smart so far AB but actually I cannot create a new project as I am on a free vision.
So let's export as BMG so you can have this BMG and you can use it and show it in your portfolios and
just generate site map like this one and it will look great similarly.
Let me move again to that same spot.
And let's go back where we can go back here or we can go back and sign in again.
Not sure how you have to go back over there anyhow.
So now we are moving to use a floor so use a floor.
Here we have the user floor and you can see there are different rectangles and then we have this kind
of triangle type shape.
It has it is actually a decision.
So this is a process.
So I am actually not using most of you can say I'm next some of this and most of the things all here
I think George user flow must be very simple.
So just think that this is a screen right now.
I'm just showing you will use a floor for an app I designed.
This is a user fro welcome screen.
Then we have have you.
Do you have an account.
If you do have an account you are going to log in you can see it here then.
This is actually if you don't have an account you are going to create a new account.
Then again you are going to log in.
So once you have been logged in you can connect your smart so far.
Why are Bluetooth.
OK.
So if your Bluetooth is already turned on you are going to go to the introduction to sofa controls and
this will be the end.
And if you are not connected with Bluetooth so far this is actually the other part you are going to
connect your Bluetooth if not connected.
So the message will appear and you will again be connected to the Bluetooth and again go to this same
screen.
So this is actually onboarding user flow for a smart so far app.
When the user first starts their team.
But this is the smart so far and they try to open the app for the first time.
This is going to what happened with them.
So there are actually two decisions or two things they are actually making over here.
One is do you have an account.
And second is whether you are connected with a so far Bluetooth or not.
So there are two parts with that.
So whenever you have some selection or you have something to decide with you are going to use this kind
of symbol lower ahead.
I'm not sure why.
Actually it has been there was something over here.
Let me show.
Okay so once I click over here.
So if I click or here I can change it to this decision symbol.
Okay.
So we have something like that or here.
So once you have me made this so it is very easy.
All the controls are at the bottom if you want to change something just click on it and you can have
another you can see a color or hair.
For example I want to show green for the connected again.
I wanted to show green or hair for the connected and it is going to show green or here.
Okay.
So that is all.
It is very easy to create and there are a lot of different more examples of very simple user flaws I'm
going to show you which others have created.
You don't need this app if you want to create it in sketch it'll be actually Photoshop whatever tool
you have or even paper or pencil you can do that.
So here is another example of user flow.
I found it on a b b.
I'm not sure who designed it so I'm not taking the credit.
So you can see kids dashboard car customization.
So this is actually two things.
It is showing that on a parent's dashboard we have flaws like we can go to kids profile kids task or
confirmation.
So these are two things where you can do also destroying that log out of ensure the confirmation your
kid you are going to select the kid and then the kid's profile.
So this these this is another kind of user flow.
This is another kind which is very simple.
I really love it.
It is what actually shows a user flow onboarding and authorization sign up sign in for guard password.
So this is actually a good example.
So it is actually reversing again and again if you forgot the password you have to sign in again from
the e-mail you get anyhow sign up create an upload photo documents add a withdrawal method choose Texas
surveys homepage.
So this is actually a user flow of a whole app not just one process.
So from onboarding to choosing a taxi home going to home page news and did profile there are a lot of
things going on here.
I don't recommend that you create two big user flaws.
I think it is better if you keep your focus on one or two processes rather than a very big user flow.
So create like three or four user flaws.
Different user flows and divide your whole big app into four different user flows that would be great.
Here's a user flow I created using Adobe equity which is designed to you a design tool and this is more
busy mom user flow and you can see I use that user flow for a chequered process a busy mom would have.
So it is actually attached to a persona.
Main Page deals page product details.
This is how this user is going to reach the information.
So they are more inclined to go to deals page rather than browsing products product details view car
check out check checkout with mobile number checkout with logging face Facebook.
Then we have both these pages going to receive order confirmation estimates for each and email.
So this is a very simple process very simple layout saying what actually the user flow must do.
This is how you as user flows must look like and work like it is very easy I just created using wireframe
free violence via framing it I'm going to share the link with you.
So do try to download that and if you have Adobe equity which is a free tool I have a full course on
that.
If you don't know it is very easy to use and it is becoming most popular with within user expense design
community in your design community you can download that and use that to create something similar like
this one all you can use any app you want and I hope you the best and we really see you soon in the
next lesson.